Update Function as a Service docs (#6970)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/learn-the-platform/run-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service/aws-lambda.md

---
layout: ballerina-cloud-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: AWS Lambda

> description: AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform. The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to write AWS Lambda-compatible packages by exposing a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function.

Reviewer: Do we need `AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform`?

Author: Updated.

keywords: ballerina, programming language, serverless, cloud, aws, lambda, cloud-native
permalink: /learn/run-ballerina-programs-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service-with-ballerina/aws-lambda/
active: aws-lambda

> intro: AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform. The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to write AWS Lambda-compatible packages by exposing a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function.

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Removed.

--- 

> **Info:** Ballerina functions can be deployed in [AWS Lambda](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html) by annotating a Ballerina function with `@awslambda:Function` adhering to the following function signature: <br/>`function (awslambda:Context, json|EventType) returns json|error`

## Supported triggers

An AWS Lambda function can be triggered by various AWS services. You can find the list of supported notification types below.

- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/" target="_blank">Direct invocation</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/" target="_blank">Simple Queue Service (SQS)</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/s3/" target="_blank">Simple Storage Service (S3)</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/" target="_blank">DynamoDB</a>

> - <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ses//" target="_blank">Simple Email Service (SES)</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ses/" target="_blank">Simple Email Service (SES)</a>
```

---
layout: ballerina-cloud-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: AWS Lambda
description: AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform. The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to write AWS Lambda-compatible packages by exposing a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function.
keywords: ballerina, programming language, serverless, cloud, aws, lambda, cloud-native
permalink: /learn/run-ballerina-programs-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service-with-ballerina/aws-lambda/
active: aws-lambda
intro: AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless computing platform. The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to write AWS Lambda-compatible packages by exposing a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function.
---

The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to expose a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function. Ballerina functions can be deployed in AWS Lambda by annotating a Ballerina function with `@awslambda:Function`. 

> **Note:** An AWS Lambda function always adheres to the following function signature: 

> `function (awslambda:Context, json|EventType) returns json|error`

Reviewer: Shouldn't we have code line in a new line? 
Due to some reason GH preview is showing it on the same line. 
<img width="890" alt="image" src="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/assets/16300038/a1237e4c-6eeb-4a8b-bbb8-27ed59dcbd91">

Author: Added a `<br/>` tag to get the code to a new line as shown below.

<img width="970" alt="Screenshot 2023-07-13 at 05 16 34" src="https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/assets/11707273/b751fa73-f2ee-4421-8023-443c5fa745c6">

## Supported triggers

An AWS Lambda function can be triggered by various AWS services. You can find the list of supported notification types below.

> - Direct Invocation

Reviewer: Can we have a link from AWS side for this?

Author: Added https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/ as the hyperlink.

> - Simple Queue Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/" target="_blank">SQS</a>

Reviewer: Shouldn't we use it as Simple Queue Service(SQS) and then link the full text? Check the bullets too.

Author: Updated the bullet points.

- Simple Storage Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/s3/" target="_blank">S3</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/" target="_blank">DynamoDB</a>
- Simple Email Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ses//" target="_blank">SES</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/" target="_blank">API Gateway</a>

## Set up the prerequisites

Follow the instructions in the sections below to set up the prerequisites.

### Set up AWS

Follow the steps below to set up an AWS account and the AWS CLI.

1. Install the <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html" target="_blank">AWS CLI</a>.

2. [Create](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/SetUp/latest/UserGuide/setup-AWSsignup.html) an AWS account and [sign in](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/SetUp/latest/UserGuide/setup-rootuser.html) to it.

### Create a user

Follow the steps below to create a new user in your AWS account.

1. Create a <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html#id_users_create_console" target="_blank">new AWS user</a>.

>     >**Info:** Enter a username and enable access to the AWS Management Console.

Reviewer: Is this info or a note?

Author: Changed to a note.

2. <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html#id_users_create_console" target="_blank">Set the permissions</a> to the created user.

>     >**Info:** Enable `AWSLambda_FullAccess` or higher permissions. 

Reviewer: Ditto

Author: Changed to a note.

    >**Info:** Enable `AWSLambda_FullAccess` or higher permissions. 

3. Access the newly created role in the AWS Console, and copy the role ARN to use when the Lambda function is being deployed.

## Create the function

You can write AWS Lambda functions that use different triggers based on your use case. 

Functions annotated as `@awslambda:Function` should always have the first parameter with the <a href="https://lib.ballerina.io/ballerinax/awslambda/latest#Context" target="_blank">`awslambda:Context`</a>object, which contains the information and operations related to the current function execution in AWS Lambda such as the request ID and the remaining execution time. 

The second parameter with the `json` value contains the input request data. This input value format will vary depending on the source, which invoked the function (e.g., an AWS S3 bucket update event). The return type of the function is `json`. When the function is triggered by the event, the function body executes and it simply logs the input JSON and returns the JSON.

> >**Info:** For examples, see [Learn more](#learn-more).

Author: Fixed.

## Build the function

The AWS Lambda functionality is implemented as a compiler extension. Therefore, artifact generation happens automatically when you build a Ballerina module by executing the command below.

```
$ bal build
```

## Deploy the function

The AWS Lambda functionality in Ballerina is implemented as a custom AWS Lambda layer. This information is provided when the function is created. The compiler generates the `aws-ballerina-lambda-functions.zip` file, which encapsulates all the AWS Lambda functions that are generated. This ZIP file can be used with the AWS web console or the <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/getting-started-configure-cli.html" target="_blank">AWS CLI</a> to deploy the functions. 

> To deploy the function, execute the command, which you get in the CLI output logs after you [build the function](#build-the-function). For examples, see [Learn more](#learn-more).

Reviewer: Link to BBEs directly.

---
layout: ballerina-cloud-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: AWS Lambda
description: Learn how to write and deploy AWS Lambda functions using Ballerina.
keywords: ballerina, programming language, serverless, cloud, aws, lambda, cloud native
permalink: /learn/run-ballerina-programs-in-the-cloud/function-as-a-service-with-ballerina/aws-lambda/
active: aws-lambda

> intro: AWS Lambda is an event driven, serverless computing platform.

Author: Fixed.

---

> The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to expose a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function. Ballerina functions can be deployed in AWS Lambda by annotating a Ballerina function with `@awslambda:Function`, which should have the `function (awslambda:Context, json|EventType) returns json|error` function signature.

Reviewer 2: I feel like we can split the last two statements. Feel free to change the wordings
```suggestion
The AWS Lambda extension provides the functionality to expose a Ballerina function as an AWS Lambda function. Ballerina functions can be deployed in AWS Lambda by annotating a Ballerina function with `@awslambda:Function`. 

**Note** - Lambda function always adhere to the following function signature. 
`function (awslambda:Context, json|EventType) returns json|error`
```

## Supported triggers
An AWS Lambda function can be triggered by various AWS services. You can find the list of supported notification types below.

- Direct Invocation
- Simple Queue Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/" target="_blank">SQS</a>
- Simple Storage Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/s3/" target="_blank">S3</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/" target="_blank">DynamoDB</a>
- Simple Email Service <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/ses//" target="_blank">SES</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/" target="_blank">API Gateway</a>

## Set up the prerequisites

Set up the prerequisites below to work with AWS Lambda functions using Ballerina.

### Set up Ballerina

Install the [latest Ballerina distribution](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

### Set up the AWS CLI

Install the <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html" target="_blank">AWS CLI</a>.

### Set up an AWS account

> Follow the steps below to set up an AWS account.

Author: Updated.

```bash
	Run the following command to deploy each Ballerina AWS Lambda function:
	aws lambda create-function --function-name $FUNCTION_NAME --zip-file fileb:///Users/user1/Desktop/aws_lambda_deployment/target/bin/aws-ballerina-lambda-functions.zip --handler aws_lambda_deployment.$FUNCTION_NAME --runtime provided --role $LAMBDA_ROLE_ARN --layers arn:aws:lambda:$REGION_ID:134633749276:layer:ballerina-jre11:6 --memory-size 512 --timeout 10

	Run the following command to re-deploy an updated Ballerina AWS Lambda function:
	aws lambda update-function-code --function-name $FUNCTION_NAME --zip-file fileb://aws-ballerina-lambda-functions.zip
```

>**Info:**  For the supported parameters, go to the <a href="https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/lambda/create-function.html" target="_blank">`create-function` documentation</a>. You might need to change parameters such as the `MemorySize` and `Timeout` depending on your application and connection speed. 

## Invoke the function

> The deployed AWS Lambda function can be tested by invoking it directly using the CLI. 

Reviewer 2: If we are not executing the function we wrote above, here, this information is wrong. Since we cover invocation part in new BBEs, do we need this explicit section? We can just put a paragraph if we needed to mention saying that you can invoke the function based on the trigger.
